Added blog post about Strimzi 0.11.x release (#51)
strimzi/strimzi.github.io: _posts/2019-03-07-strimzi-0.11.0-release.md

---
layout: post

> title:  "Strimzi 0.11.0 released!"

Reviewer: You say 0.11.0 here and 0.11.1 in the text.

date: 2018-03-07
author: paolo_patierno
---

> We are delighted to announce the new Strimzi 0.11.0 and 0.11.1 releases with some new features!

Reviewer 2: Why announce 0.11.0 at all? I would just announce 0.11.1.

Author: @scholzj suggested that most of the new features were in 0.11.0

<!--more-->

# JBOD storage support for Kafka brokers

> Other than supporting the ephemeral and persistent storage, now Strimzi supports JBOD (Just a Bunch of Disks) storage for Kafka brokers (but not for Zookeeper nodes).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Other than supporting the ephemeral and persistent storage, Strimzi now supports JBOD (Just a Bunch of Disks) storage for Kafka brokers (but not for Zookeeper nodes).
```

> The JBOD data storage configuration provides a way for having multiple disks combined to create a single logical disk, or volume.

Reviewer 2: There's not combining into a single logical volume going on in the accepted sense (e.g. RAID, or the various linuxy ways of doing this). It's just a bunch of (unrelated) disks which the broker is putting the partition data on.

```suggestion
The JBOD data storage configuration provides a way for Kafka brokers to make use of multiple disks.
```

Author: We have to change the documentation as well then ;) I will open a PR for that.

Reviewer: @ppatierno Please sync with Paul for the docs ... I raised it today duirng the release notes review and he mentioned it is in the docs like this as well.

JBOD is one approach to providing increased data storage for Kafka brokers.

> It can also improve performance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It can also improve performance when there is an independent I/O path for each disk. 
```

A JBOD configuration is described by one or more volumes, each of which can be either ephemeral or persistent.

To use JBOD with Strimzi, the storage `type` must be set to the new `jbod` value.
Then the `volumes` property allows you to describe the disks that make up your JBOD storage array or configuration.

Here's an example snippet with a JBOD configuration.

```yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1alpha1
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
spec:
  kafka:
    ...
    storage:
      type: jbod
      volumes:
      - id: 0
        type: persistent-claim
        size: 100Gi
        deleteClaim: false
      - id: 1
        type: persistent-claim
        size: 100Gi
        deleteClaim: false
```

> The Cluster Operator will configure the `log.dirs` Kafka parameter accordingly, in order to store messages logs on the different volumes.

Reviewer 2: In this whole section you've used the terms disk and volume more or less interchangeably, but you not mentioned "Persistent Volumes" or PVCs. I think it would be better to tighten up the terminology, otherwise you risk confusing readers.

> # Improved configuration for off cluster access

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Improved configuration for off-cluster access
```

> This improvement was really driven by the community!

Reviewer: Big part of this code has been contributed - maybe you should mentioned that.

> This improvement was mostly driven and contributed by the community!

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't we give kudos to whoever contributed it?

Author: @scholzj can you point me to the rights PRs for that?

Reviewer: https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/pull/1235

A lot of developers asked about having more flexibility and extensibility on the listeners configuration for exposing the Kafka cluster outside of the Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster.

When configuring the `listeners.external` section of the `Kafka` resource, it's now possible to leverage a new `overrides` property for a more powerful configuration.

> For example, by default, using a `route` listener, the route hosts are automatically assigned by OpenShift.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, by default, using a `route` listener, the route hostnames are automatically assigned by OpenShift.
```

> Now, you can override the assigned route hosts by specifying the requested hosts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, you can override the assigned route hostnamess, specifying the names you want to use.
```

Here's an example snippet for overriding route hosts.

```yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1alpha1
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
spec:
  kafka:
    ...
    listeners:
      external:
        type: route
          authentication:
            type: tls
          overrides:
            bootstrap:
              host: bootstrap.myrouter.com
            brokers:
            - broker: 0
              host: broker-0.myrouter.com
            - broker: 1
              host: broker-1.myrouter.com
            - broker: 2
              host: broker-2.myrouter.com
```

> Another powerful new addition is about configuring the node ports when the `nodeport` listener is used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `nodeport` listener is now also more configurable.
```

By default, the port numbers used for the bootstrap and broker services are automatically assigned by OpenShift or Kubernetes.

> Now, you can override the assigned node ports by specifying the requested port numbers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Strimzi 0.11.0 lets you override the assigned node ports by specifying the requested port numbers.
```

Author: We don't agree which version we should mention here :-)

Author: I changed in "This new Strimzi release lets you ..."

Here's an example snippet for overriding node ports.

```yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1alpha1
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
spec:
  kafka:
    ...
    listeners:
      external:
        type: nodeport
        tls: true
        authentication:
          type: tls
        overrides:
          bootstrap:
            nodePort: 32100
          brokers:
          - broker: 0
            nodePort: 32000
          - broker: 1
            nodePort: 32001
          - broker: 2
            nodePort: 32002
```

> Finally, a really interesting new feature on listeners is about customizing the Kafka brokers advertised addresses.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, a really interesting new feature on listeners is customization of the Kafka brokers' advertised addresses.
```

Now, you can customize the advertised hostname and port.
Strimzi will then automatically configure the advertised address in the Kafka brokers and add it to the broker certificates so it can be used for TLS hostname verification.

Here's an example snippet for overriding advertised addresses.

```yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1alpha1
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
spec:
  kafka:
    ...
    listeners:
      external:
        type: route
        authentication:
          type: tls
        overrides:
          brokers:
          - broker: 0
            advertisedHost: example.hostname.0
            advertisedPort: 12340
          - broker: 1
            advertisedHost: example.hostname.1
            advertisedPort: 12341
          - broker: 2
            advertisedHost: example.hostname.2
            advertisedPort: 12342
```

You can find many more overrides option in the official documentation in the Kafka broker listeners [chapter](https://strimzi.io/docs/latest/#assembly-configuring-kafka-broker-listeners-deployment-configuration-kafka).

# Prometheus alerts

> Other than providing the server component for scraping metrics from your applications, the Prometheus project also provides an alerting system through the alert manager component.

Reviewer 2: Link to prometheus? And to the docs for the different components?

It is possible to declare alerting rules on the Prometheus server in order to be notified about specific conditions in the metrics.
When an alert condition is evaluated as true, Prometheus sends alert data to the alert manager which then sends notifications out.
Notifications can be sent via methods such as email, Slack, PagerDuty and HipChat.

> The new Strimzi release provides the Kubernetes/OpenShift resources for deploying the alert manager as well as few examples of alerting rules for Kafka and Zookeeper metrics and related notifications via Slack.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The new Strimzi release provides the Kubernetes/OpenShift resources for deploying the alert manager as well as a few examples of alerting rules for Kafka and Zookeeper metrics and related notifications via Slack.
```

Here's an example snippet with an alert related to the under replicated partitions metric.

```yaml
- alert: UnderReplicatedPartitions
  expr: kafka_server_replicamanager_underreplicatedpartitions > 0
  for: 10s
  labels:
    severity: warning
  annotations:
    summary: 'Kafka under replicated partitions'
    description: 'There are {{ $value }} under replicated partitions on {{ $labels.kubernetes_pod_name }}'
```

# ... and many more

Other features were included in this new release, the most important ones:

* Support for the Cluster Operator to watch all namespaces for the supported resources.
* Allow users to configure the default ImagePullPolicy related to the containers images download.

> * Operator Lifecycle Manager integration which allowed to have Strimzi as part of the [OperatorHub.io](https://www.operatorhub.io/).

Reviewer: You should link to my blog post ;-)

Author: Right!

Of course, bug fixes are there as well!

# Conclusion

> This release represents another really huge milestone for this open source project.

Reviewer: Just thinking ... is it really _a huge milestone_? Wouldn't _another milestone_ be enough? Feel free to ignore this if you think its really a huge milestone :-D

```suggestion
This release represents another milestone for this open source project.
```

> You can refer to the release [changes log](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi/releases/tag/0.11.1) to get more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can refer to the release [change log](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi/releases/tag/0.11.1) to get more information.
```
